---
layout: post
date:   2020-05-11
image: 
title:  "All Quiet on the Northern Front"
author: "Karthik Shah"
---



#### Hindu Nationalism: a rebirth of violence
 
India is the world’s largest democracy. A secular democracy. Yet, ever since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014 the country has become increasingly intolerant towards its millions of Muslim citizens and has been rebranding itself as a Hindu nation. Modi has never shied from calling himself as a Hindu Nationalist; as a youth Modi spent time working for the RSS( a militant group of Hindu extremists) and his term as Chief Minister of Gujarat was mired in Hindu-Muslim riots that he has been accused of inciting and/or exacerbating . 

Therefore, it is no surprise that Modi and the Bharitya Janta Party’s current reign has pushed Hindu beliefs into national policy- banning of beef, avid promotion of Ayurvedic medicine (including but not limited to, ridiculous treatments like drinking cow urine to ward off the Corona virus). But the greatest manifestation of Modi’s Hindu Nationalism has been the sharp uptick of Islamophobia, and premeditated violence against Muslims. Riots, looting Muslim households and businesses, and lynching have become common tactics adopted by frenzied- bigoted BJP- mobs. Modi has remained tactfully silent during this unrest, turning a blind eye towards blatant Islamophobia- his vision for a Hindu India slowly being realized.

#### Conflict Report: a survey of unrest

The Modi government has been extremely divisive, to say the least. While riots have become common, so have anti-government protests. Citizens are slowly becoming enraged as India slips further into fascism. These maps outline the number of reported incidents of unrests- ranging from protests, to riots, and military interventions.

*** conflict maps

#### Internet Blackout: a strategy of censorship

One of Modi’s campaign promises during his first campaign was to build a Digital India. Digital India was a campaign that aimed to increase the digital literacy of the country, by providing high speed internet access to rural pockets of the country and creating jobs in the tech industry. And to his credit, Modi has made internet services accessible to millions of people; with approximately 10 million daily active users, India has the highest rate of addition to the internet community in the world. The increased number of internet users made social networks one of the primary pipelines for the government to disperse its propaganda. Modi and other high-ranking BJP (Modi’s political party) members are extremely adept as using social media platforms like Twitter to engage with followers and incessantly stir up Hindu nationalism. The notorious BJP IT cell has been widely written about , a group dedicated to both retweeting progovernment messages into echo chambers , while actively seeking out and doxing critics and unbiased journalists . The Modi heightens this control of information and access by regularly blacking out internet services. India has been the country with the greatest number of government mandated internet black outs for the last five years. Modi’s government has quickly learned that controlling access to internet is the fastest way to control the narrative of events, prevent the truth from getting out. Most notably, the Central Government shut down the internet for the entire Kashmir Valley, with a population of over 7 million people, for nearly six months after revoking Kashmir’s autonomy and statehood. As of today, the valley can only access a couple hundred government sanctioned websites. Indeed, the Digital India that Modi created was a highly curated version of the country, one that is closely monitored and kept in line with the BJP’s overall ideals of Hindu Nationalism.

*** black out maps

#### Kashmir: a very brief history

Kashmir is the northernmost geographic region of the Indian subcontinent, and has been ground zero for Hindu-Muslim, and broader geopolitical tension since the partition of India in 1947. Kashmir is divided between India, Pakistan, and China and the borders between these territories remain contested. Kashmir has traditionally been a Muslim majority area, even as far back as the British census of 1941 demonstrates that there was about 77% Muslims occupying Kashmir. However, during the partition many Muslims of Kashmir did not want to leave the secular nation of India in favour of a new Islamic nation- Pakistan. This hesitation led to a nebulous border between the two countries, and a battle for control that has lasted decades. Of key importance is the fact that Kashmir was always considered an autonomous region by India. This autonomy granted Kashmir privileges like self-governance, only allowing permanent residents of Kashmir to buy property, and the ability to make laws for themselves .  Kashmir remains the most volatile border in the world because of the nuclear might, and tremendous population of all three countries involved in the dispute. [This has been an extremely simplified summary of the history of Kashmir]

*** kashmir map

#### Kashmir 2019 : a timeline of oppression
 
On August 5th 2019 the Modi government revoked Article 370 of the Indian Constitution The incident set off a chain of events that culminated in a six month long internet blackout and military enforced curfew for the entire region of Jammu and Kashmir, a population of over 7 million people living under the wrath of an iron fist.  Article 370 granted Kashmir its partial autonomy, with the changes the state of Jammu and Kashmir would be divided into two separate territories to be controlled directly by the central government. Non-permanent residents are now able to purchase land, which many believe will lead to an influx of wealthy Hindus that will drive out the impoverished Kashmiris- an ethnic cleansing via capitalism. Modi spun this decision as an attempt to unify the country better, promising “a new era”. Yet, 35,000 paramilitaries were flown into the already heavily militarized region (close to a million militia in the region at any given point). After the lockdown and internet blackout was announced in Kashmir local politicians, trade unionists, and any suspected dissenters were forcibly removed from their homes and imprisoned indefinitely. Night raids grew common, as paramilitaries busted into houses and beat up minors and transported them to jails out of state. The cities were effectively shut down- including essential services like hospitals and schools. Violent protest in Kashmir has only led to further bloodshed and deaths, as police and military forces grow increasingly emboldened to quell unrest. Despite immense international condemnation, the Modi government continued with their mission to dissolve and subjugate India’s only Muslim majority territory .

***photo and 2019 maps

#### Data and Methodology 

The data for the conflict reports were obtained from ACLED, The Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project. The organization is a registered non-profit within the United States, and collects, cleans and categorizes data about armed conflict for all regions of the world. The specific methodology they employ can be found in greater detail on their website  . I used data from their South Asia region from January 2016 till March 7th 2020. The dataset of Internet blackouts was obtained from AccessNow.org. AccessNow is an international non-profit, human-rights, public policy advocacy group. They have been at the forefront of reporting on and advocating for digital rights including internet access, net neutrality, encryption, and mitigation of digital surveillance. I used all the categorizations provided by both datasets, and only created my own tagging system to denote the primary causality of the internet shutdowns. This was done by parsing the description of each event in the dataset- I looked for keywords in the event details that would help create broad descriptive categories. For example, many instances mentioned tension within Dalit communities, Dalits are a caste in India so this event was categorized as ‘Caste’. I geocoded these datasets using python, and created the maps using QGIS. All images featured have been marked for non-commercial reuse, and have been cited.

#### Final Thoughts

The blood of Kashmiris is on the hands of all Indians who passively watched the BJP strip an entire region off basic human rights for half a year. This is a defining period of history for India, we can either yield to blatant fascism and pray that our identities are not persecuted next or continue to resist and protest these violations. Draw international attention to these abuses, and ultimately vote out the bigots at every local, regional, and national election. If we continue our current path India will end up with censorship levels comparable to China- and any delusions of being the world’s largest democracy will shatter.




#### Sources  & Further Reading


