---
layout: post
date:   2020-05-10
image: "/conflict_urbanism_sp2020/images/csr_thumbnail.png"
title:  "ssd2148"
author: "Sumer Drall & Amelia Marcantonio-Fields"


**off the grid: A spatial exploration of the historic development of the Brooklyn street grid**  

The 19th century was crucial in the formation of the New York City we are familiar with today. This is not only due to the economic success, infrastructural developments and population rise of New York but also due to the simultaneous growth of the city across the river - Brooklyn. 
Following a massive increase in population in the late 18th century, New York consolidated its role as America’s leading city in the 19th century with a string of influential infrastructural and financial decisions in the face of historic socio-political events.   

In 1807, a steamboat route between New York and Albany spurred cargo and passenger movement. In 1825, the city completed construction of the Erie Canal - hence providing direct access to Atlantic Ocean trade routes and allowing the natural harbour of the city to be utilized in its full capacity. Impacted by the devastating Great Fire of New York in 1835 and motivated by the importance of increasing water supply, the city commenced service of the Croton Aqueduct in 1842. The economic developments in the 19th century also coincided with a period of increased immigration into the city, leading to not only a larger workforce but also a more packed city. Although the prospect of an expanding population definitely influenced the 1811 Plan that designed Manhattan’s famed rectangular street grid, the steeply rising immigration rates post the Civil War and tightly cramped tenements led to concerns that New York was reaching its density limits. 



If you want to include html files (i.e. an interactive map) host these via your personal github page, and then you can embed them in your document with a iframe. The format looks like this:  


All you need to do to use one is replace the url that is between the two " ". Here is an iframe of mapbox tiles:  


<div class="iframe-column"><iframe src="https://api.mapbox.com/styles/v1/arm2226/ck9yzumf32w1a1ip8wc194r3n.html?fresh=true&title=copy&access_token=pk.eyJ1IjoiYXJtMjIyNiIsImEiOiJjazl3NXRhZ2owNmxkM2dvNHpjeGVlaDBzIn0.hBOziSpvxbRv14YGJcJgVw" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0"></iframe></div>


<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Add a WMS source</title>
<meta name="viewport" content="initial-scale=1,maximum-scale=1,user-scalable=no" />
<script src="https://api.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v1.10.0/mapbox-gl.js"></script>
<link href="https://api.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/v1.10.0/mapbox-gl.css" rel="stylesheet" />
<style>
	body { margin: 0; padding: 0; }
	#map { position: absolute; top: 0; bottom: 0; width: 100%; }
</style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="map"></div>
<script>
	// TO MAKE THE MAP APPEAR YOU MUST
	// ADD YOUR ACCESS TOKEN FROM
	// https://account.mapbox.com
	mapboxgl.accessToken = 'pk.eyJ1IjoiYXJtMjIyNiIsImEiOiJjazl3NXRhZ2owNmxkM2dvNHpjeGVlaDBzIn0.hBOziSpvxbRv14YGJcJgVw';
var map = new mapboxgl.Map({
container: 'map',
style: 'mapbox://styles/mapbox/light-v10',
zoom: 8,
center: [-74.5447, 40.6892]
});
 
map.on('load', function() {
map.addSource('wms-test-source', {
'type': 'raster',
'tiles': [
'http://maps.nypl.org/warper/layers/wms/1057'
],
'tileSize': 256
});
map.addLayer(
{
'id': 'wms-test-layer',
'type': 'raster',
'source': 'wms-test-source',
'paint': {}
},
'aeroway-line'
);
});
</script>
 
</body>
</html>
